i've been meeting to write an essay on
the relation of america
and the future
in a lot of ways america has been
engaged in a battle to represent the
future this is certainly true since the
cold war
probably earlier because europe at oec
in america in the 19th century is this
new society that was being created a
fresh and an empty canvas of course it
wasn't an empty campus they were just
slaughtering the people who already
lived here
but
that idea of america as the future
was very much at stake in in the cold
war turkeville said that that there are
two images of the future that would
fight it out in the 20th century the
american one of freedom and the russian
one of authority uh because they were
both frontier societies at the time
so in fact after world war ii there was
indeed a kind of a battle and that's why
it was so important for the americans to
win the space race that they wanted to
seize control over the idea of
representing the future and for many
people
america did represent the kind of future
it wasn't clear what it was it was
technological it was open-ended it
celebrated youth and youthful energies
and creativity and and and
sort of can do attitude of solving all
problems
now
something has happened to that
this
people still watch american movies
people still listen to american music
american cultural hegemony has retreated
but it's still very powerful however
politically
ever since the end of the cold war
something very strange has happened that
american politics have actually
retreated back
to a quest for something that many if
not most of people in the rest of the
world have already had an america never
got
that is to say you have the sanders wing
of the democratic party who are social
democrats but basically they're pushing
for the kind of policies that everybody
in europe and many other parts of the
world as well you know mexico um
already had in the 1950s for
universities free health care
um
on the other hand
you have the trumpian right is reviving
various forms of fascism or very least
anti-anti-fascism um
who are basically taking us back to
where much of the rest of the world from
from germany to argentina was in the
1930s
so
it's really hard to see america as
embodying the future when
their most radical politicians are
desperately struggling with each other
over which part of the past to restore